Lope de Vega
EL PERRO DEL HORTELANO
This edition of the play is intended to be a reliable edition but is, under no circumstances, to
be considered as a thorough critical edition complete with variant readings, extensive notes, nor any
of the valuable expository discussion that is usually found in such. Those who would like to study
the play or to comment on it with greater security than can be claimed for this electronic edition
should refer to one of the two modern critical editions of the work: the edition prepared by A. David
Kossoff and published in Madrid by Castalia in 1970, or that prepared by Victor Dixon and
published in London by Támesis in 1981. Either of these editions should be easily found in any
reasonable university library. In them you will also find a bibliography of early editions and
manuscripts available for the play, cogent discussion of the work as literature, and a suggestive
bibliography of articles about this comedia. Dovehouse Editions published a fine translation of the
play by Victor Dixon (AThe Dog in the Manger@) in 1990.
El perro del hortelano has also been the subject of many studies that have been published
since these two editions were prepared. These items may be identified by reference to the valuable
ABibliography on the Comedia@ published each fall in the Bulletin of the Comediantes.
A marvelous recent film, directed by Pilar Miró was made in Spain. One of the points the
director made in preparing the film was that the original text of Lope de Vega was a lucid and
performable text even in this modern media. That film is available on commercially published
video. It can be obtained on loan from the video collection of the AHCT by members of that
association. The video tape collection of the AHCT also contains tapes of a production in English
translation, AThe Dog in the Manger,@ as performed at the University of Dublin in 1986 under the
direction of Victor Dixon and a second performance in English translation as performed by the
Kitsilano Theater of Vancouver in 1994 for the annual ASiglo de Oro Drama Festival@ at El Chamizal
National Memorial in El Paso, Texas.
